Worldwide, Jehovah's people are well known as being
law-abiding citizens, persons who pay taxes,
and who do not rebel against the government.
If someone were to ask you what scriptures they're based on,
I'm sure all of us would cite Romans 13, verse 1.
So let's turn that together to refresh our memories.
I want this verse actually tells us Romans 13, verse 1.
Let every person be in subjection to the superior authorities
for there is no authority except by God.
The existing authorities then placed in their relative positions by God.
And then looking at verse 7, it says, render it to all their dues
to the one who calls for tax, the tax.
So this is a scrupulous basis for us to pay our taxes and to be law-abiding citizens.
We realize from verse 1 that this involves our faith and belief in Jehovah God
because we realize that the superior authorities are accountable
not to us but to Jehovah.
So if Jehovah allows certain authorities to remain in control,
then we wait on Jehovah because any abuse of their authority
is answerable to God.
But there could be a challenge in this for us
because although we may be well known as neutral with regard to politics,
what else does verse 7 tell us that we need to do?
We're not as toward the end of verse 7, it says,
to the one who calls for honor such honor.
So not just neutrality, not just submission,
but being willing to give honor to these individuals who are
part of the superior authorities.
Now why can that be a challenge for us?
Well put quite simply, it's easy isn't it
to honor someone if you don't know what they're up to?
If you don't know them personally and you don't know their horrible personalities.
Also, if you're not personally affected by decisions that that person makes,
then again it's a little easier to honor that person.
But today we find ourselves in the midst of a world that has an overload of
information, the media, TV, radio, they promote the
personalities of those who are part of the superior authorities.
So we get to know them a little better and perhaps there's also false
information that can be given to us that may form opinions.
Additionally, some of the decisions made by governments do
personally affect us in many different ways.
So even though we face all of this, what do the Scriptures tell us?
Well we have to show honor such honor to those ones.
Well that may seem a challenge for a Christian,
but first of all we need to remember that the word honor, just like the word love,
can have various meanings in different applications or contexts.
For example, loving your enemy is a different feeling to loving your parents.
So in a similar way we need to ask what is this honor?
The honor mentioned here does not mean admire or imitate or idolize
or even approve of the conduct of these ones.
No, it means giving due respect because of their authority and position.
First Peter chapter 3 verse 15, remember, reminds us
if we are asked to give a reply as to why we believe a certain way or if there are
issues raised, how should we answer such ones?
What we should do so with a mild temper and deep respect.
So whenever we say something about the superior authorities,
it's good for us to keep in mind the way that we express ourselves.
The Apostle Paul gives a very good example with regard to this.
We remember that Paul was wrongfully imprisoned in Caesarea
and there he had to wait in detention to try and get justice,
which he didn't receive there at that time.
So in this process we could say he probably got to know very well
some of the representatives of the superior authorities.
He also was personally affected by the lack of right decisions.
But how did Paul approach this situation?
How did he express himself before these individuals?
Well, we noticed first of all, Governor Felix is mentioned as one of the ones
that Paul stood before. What was Felix like?
Well, according to historians, he was a man who really was morally bankrupt.
He felt he could get away with anything, any evil, any lust.
He felt that he wasn't accountable to anyone.
Also, he was able to seduce his wife away from her previous husband.
So as a person, he really wasn't living up to any sort of Christian values whatsoever.
And yet if we look at Acts chapter 24 and verse 10 later, you'll notice
when Paul addresses Felix, he doesn't criticize him for any of these things,
but he speaks to him in a very respectful manner,
saying that he's very happy to stand before Felix.
Well, what continues on after that?
After waiting such a long time in detention because of false arrest,
then Paul stands before Governor Festus.
Now Festus was the worst of providers.
He also was a man who wasn't totally interested in justice.
The scriptures tell us in chapter 25 of Acts verse 7
that he was interested in carrying favor with the Jews.
So he was looking to see what he could do to make the Jews happy
rather than giving true justice to Paul.
So because of this, ultimately Paul appealed to Caesar.
That was his right.
But later, after that incident, we'll notice that Festus was interviewing Paul
and he makes a comment.
Paul, you're going crazy.
You're going out of your mind.
Now, here, Paul realizing that really Festus couldn't touch him
because he'd appealed to Caesar.
He was going there.
That could have been an opportunity for Paul to really tell Festus what he thought about him.
Particularly, Festus was waiting for a bribe and that was totally illegal
under the Roman arrangement.
But no, Paul very respectfully refers to him as your excellency.
Then Paul stood before King Herod a grip of the second.
Now, he was in the midst of a scandalous and
senseless relationship with his sister.
He was also morally bankrupt.
And yet again, Paul showed him honor.
Yes, he followed the words there,
recorded in Romans 13, verse 7, he gave honor to those who wanted honor.
This reminds me of an experience that we had many years ago.
It was in a country where Jehovah's Witnesses had been banned for well over 30 years.
And finally, the government registered Jehovah's people.
So up to that point, in that country, we were not allowed to have kingdom halls or a translation
office. So the branch immediately arranged to purchase some property that we could use for a
kingdom hall and a translation office.
Well, everything went through except one thing that was needed.
And that was the approval from the government for us to finalize the purchase.
Well, the brothers hired a worldly lawyer to help us with organizing this.
And over a period of about 18 months, we saw how the government just played cat and mouse with
us with regard to this issue. The lawyer would go and see how our application was going.
The government would say, oh, no, we don't have any application at all.
And then the lawyer would show the copies of the application and suddenly they would find our
application. Well, after this long period of time, this worldly lawyer rang the branch committee.
He called them and he said, we have got them. Now is your opportunity to embarrass the government.
I've got this file of all the things that they've done.
If we release this to the media, we can embarrass the government totally and force them to
approve this purchase. Well, how would you have answered?
Well, the answer given to the worldly lawyer was, Jehovah's Witnesses are not interested in embarrassing
governments. We don't get involved with protests and riots. All we want is a piece of land
where we can build a kingdom hall. So we asked the lawyer to respectfully ask the government,
what could we do to solve this problem? And the answer came back. They didn't want us to have
that particular piece of land because it was too prominent. They were happy for us to have
another piece of land. And a kingdom hall, translation office and missionary home,
were eventually built on that land. But was there any benefit to that? Yes, as it turned out,
a worldly lawyer eventually gave up his legal practice and went into politics and became one of
the most prominent government officials as a minister in the government. After being appointed
as such, he called the branch and he said to the brothers and the branch committee,
I will never forget your answer that you gave me. You do not want to embarrass the government.
So the government would like to tell you that you can double the number of
missionaries that you have now in this country. And ever since that time, our brothers have enjoyed
decades of peaceful relationships with the government. So what's the point? Jehovah's people
interested in rioting and protesting, but we do what Romans 13 verse 7 says. When honor is
called for, we give honor to the superior authorities.